# Automate the Boring Stuff With Python

I have learned Python automation.  I learned Automation because of Srikanth Adiga Sir, Who is the C.E.O of Krishagni Solutions Pvt Ltd, Pune. Because of sir, Now I feel that I will learn anything myself. They suggested me to learn the Python Automation using "Automate The Boring Stuff With Python book which is written by  Al Sweigart". Al Sweigart is a software developer. He has written several books for beginners, including Scratch Programming Playground, Cracking Codes with Python, Invent Your Own Computer Games with Python, and Making Games with Python & Pygame. 

The book is very awesome. For the beginners, the book is very useful to clear the concepts. The author explained each and every concept briefly. The book gives step by step instructions of each program, and practice projects at the end of each chapter challenge us to improve those programs and use our skills to automate similar tasks. The book says that don't remember the syntax, Just learn the concepts carefully. 

The first chapter is Python basics, which encourage us to the code into the interactive shell. Because of this, we can learn some expressions and rules of writing the python code. The second chapter teaches, the flow of the program. In the Python language, there are no blocks(curly brackets) like other languages. The tab is considered as the blocks. In this, the indentation matters a lot. Because code executes from starting line to ending line of the program. There is no main function like c,c++ and java languages. The code execution depends on the indentations. If we give mistakenly extra tab in our program then the program will show the indentation error. I got a lot of difficulties due to indentations.

The third chapter teaches how to write and call the functions. In python, we can write our own functions. Also, declaring the local and global variables and rules to write the local and global variables. The fourth chapter is Lists. It explains the Lists and tuples data types. Lists and tuples can store any type of data. The fifth chapter describes dictionaries and structuring the data, which provides us a flexible way to access and organize the data. We can access the values of the dictionary as same as the lists. The sixth chapter explains the strings. The seventh chapter is pattern matching with regular expressions, which explains to write the regular expressions which allow us to specify the pattern of characters which we are looking for. We find and replace the regular expressions. The 8th chapter is Input Validation. These four chapters are simple to learn. These chapters teach us the syntax and rules of python.

The Input validation code checks the values entered by the user, such as the input function. From this chapter, we have to install the third-party modules. Then After learning these 8 chapters. 

From the 9th chapter, I enjoyed the learning. Because I learned lots of new things. I learned from the 9th chapter reading and writing files using the Python code. From the 10th chapter, I learned how to handle the files themselves, by copying them, deleting them, moving them and more. Then the next 11th chapter focuses on some python modules that will help us to analyze and debug our programs. The 12th chapter is web scrapping. I love this chapter because we can access any webpage using the python program. This chapter is very simple and easy. We can download any file from the web using python. 

Then, 13th to 16th chapter I learned to access excel spreadsheets, google spreadsheets, pdfs, word documents, csv files, and json data using python modules.

Then, from the 17th chapter, I learned to schedule the tasks, launching the programs and Keeping time in the program. Then I studied sending emails and text messages using the
python automation. 

19th chapter is manipulating Images. Which is depends on the resolution of our screen. We have to give pixel numbers to our python program which is difficult to find exact pixels. I got trouble to find out the length of the pixel. The 20 the chapter is the Controlling Keyboard and Mouse with GUI Automation. This chapter is similar to the 19th chapter. This also depends on the pixels. 

**I think that Python language is a very simple language to learn as compared to c, c++ and java. Because In Python there are no Datatypes like other languages. We can create variable directly and store any type of data in that variable. That means we don't want to create the physical memory like other languages. It allocates memory directly to the data. This is a powerful thing in Python.**

